Incoming livestream: Hello, hello. Okay, alright, folks, we're gonna get restarted in Track 2. If you haven't already joined the Slack, here's the link for the Slack, or here's the, QR code for the Slack, here's the Wi-Fi if you want to get on as well. Please take a picture and share the picture with your neighbor so that they will know how to get on as well.
Incoming livestream: Also, I'm gonna be walking around… I think most people have name tags, but if you don't have a name tag, I have name tags. And Steve, here, wave your hand, Steve.
Incoming livestream: We'll probably help hand out name tags, too. Alright, with that, I'm gonna turn it over to Chase to kick it off with his talk on three phases of AI enterprise adoption.
Incoming livestream: Over to you, Chase. Hey, good morning, everybody. I'm, Lieutenant Colonel Chase Hasbrook from U.S. Army Cyber Command. I'm gonna talk to you today about three phases of enterprise AI adoption, or the subtitle, which I should have made the main title, which is, you know, how I, for two years.
Dragos Ruiu: Too many mutes. I've got so much audio going on.
Incoming livestream: Chatbots. Going on over here. So…
Dragos Ruiu: I said, hey, Luis before, but I guess was unmuted, so…
Incoming livestream: Right up front, I'm here on my own personal dime. The views expressed in this presentation are my own personal observations.
Incoming livestream: They do not represent any official positions.
Dragos Ruiu: I've got, I've got 12, I've got 12 screens here, so it gets a little bit, a little bit messy.
Incoming livestream: Long before the events.
Dragos Ruiu: And I've got 3 copies of the audio streams babbling away.
Incoming livestream: I have no special insight or understanding into the events of last week. If you want to use your 30 seconds to ask me a question on the events of last week, I will give you an answer.
Dragos Ruiu: Going, going.
Incoming livestream: Smoothly so far.
Dragos Ruiu: It's… do we have…
Incoming livestream: If you want to have a better discussion on that topic.
Dragos Ruiu: Dream for the others.
Incoming livestream: Find me after, we can talk about it.
Dragos Ruiu: stream.
Incoming livestream: Alright, so… who's this guy who's standing in front of you? Why should you listen to him today? I find this is relevant.
Dragos Ruiu: I'm doing the online part of it.
Dragos Ruiu: Along with Tammy and a couple other people, so… I got.
Incoming livestream: And.
Dragos Ruiu: Gaddy called me on Friday and said, hey, can you make an online conference in a weekend? And I, you know, I'm a sucker for, for high visibility of failure, low, ridiculous timeline projects, so we did.
Incoming livestream: Yes. Cyber, as an actual…
Dragos Ruiu: team, Tammy, Brushnai's wife, and a couple of other folks.
Incoming livestream: Kind of worked all weekend to pull all this together for…
Dragos Ruiu: Currently, 1300 people.
Incoming livestream: ground up. We can talk about that.
Dragos Ruiu: And it's really annoying, it's 1338, I'm gonna go delete an attendee.
Incoming livestream: Kind of culminated where I ran the Army's, SolarWinds Orion.
Dragos Ruiu: Yeah, there's something, something bogus there, so the actual number is…
Incoming livestream: Big, big…
Dragos Ruiu: It's lower itself.
Incoming livestream: So, let's just.
Dragos Ruiu: But right now, I've gotta… I'm gonna… I gotta…
Incoming livestream: Pause a second, because I've got to go chase the AV guys, the Stage 1 stream isn't, switched over to the new key, so…
Dragos Ruiu: I'll be back.
Incoming livestream: what did and did not happen. Moved on from that, wanted to expand and do other things. The Army very graciously allowed me to spend some time doing other stuff.
Dragos Ruiu: I'm working on it.
Incoming livestream: at DARPA, as a DARPA Fellow, as part of their Service Chiefs Fellows program in 2022, where I had a very, very small part in the AI Cyber Challenge, and by means, by small part, I mean… Please, yes, save me some time here.
Dragos Ruiu: I'll listen in the background.
Incoming livestream: I also did a little bit of consulting with Task Force Lima, which, for those of you who don't know, was CDAO…
Dragos Ruiu: excuse me.
Incoming livestream: attempts to get their hands around what is called ChatGPT, and when it's.
Dragos Ruiu: What do you care about.
Incoming livestream: about it.
Incoming livestream: And then from there, I came back to Army Cyber.
Incoming livestream: I have it on my queue list. I run forensics and malware analysis for the Army. That's my role at Army Cyber Command. But I also continue to work with DARPA, and I advise on emerging technologies and things, and periodic.
Dragos Ruiu: We are.
Incoming livestream: run workshops and other discussion forums about emerging tech. So last year, we did some stuff looking at digital identity and the LLM scaling, and then this year, we are specifically doing something very similar to this conference, where we're looking at AI security.
Dragos Ruiu: I'll look at it as soon as I fix this stream key for Stage 1.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, I could come up here, I could demo the new MCP server for Ghidra and the 10 different forks of it, and we could have a really good and interesting talk about, what it means when you have
Incoming livestream: Unlimited tokens and compute, and you can throw them as a reverse engineer.
Dragos Ruiu: And I just fixed it, so now that's top of stack, let me go look at it.
Incoming livestream: Unfortunately, I can't give you that talk today, because a lot of what we've learned from that, I'm not certain whether I'm even allowed to tell you about it. So, instead, I'm just going to talk to you, kind of, my past two years about what I've done, the pain points I've had in trying to get both my internal technical team
Incoming livestream: Adopting, various, AI chatbot agents and things.
Dragos Ruiu: Cool, yeah.
Incoming livestream: And also, broadly, because I was kind of like the power user who got drafted into, hey, you're really smart at this stuff, so why don't you come and, like, help on the enterprise side with enterprise adoption, because we've rolled out this new tool, and nobody's using it, help us. So I can also talk a little bit about…
Incoming livestream: that and, some of the things we've learned, from AI adoption from the Army cyber perspective.
Incoming livestream: Alright, so, but before I get started, let me set the stage a little bit. So, the Army is big.
Incoming livestream: really, really big. Very, very large. We have over a million people. When you count, active duty, uniformed, as well as National Guard and Army Reserve, as well as all of the civilians, we are comfortably over a million.
Incoming livestream: And also, those guard and reserve people are also part-timers. So, if you work in an enterprise where a third of your million-plus workforce is part-timers, and doing security controls of that, please come talk to me. I'd be interested to know how you're handling that challenge.
Incoming livestream: Second point, this is a extremely specialized workforce. We, we don't have… Members of technical staff.
Incoming livestream: Right? We have lots and lots of people who are drafted into very
Incoming livestream: specialized, discrete roles where everything is drafted up according to a plan, everybody's expected to follow the plan, and you will follow this ascending timeline of you will do this at this point in your career, and this point in your career, and so on. So, it's just…
Incoming livestream: very specialized, and I'll talk a little more about this later, about, you know, where do LLMs, where does that fit in that story? And then, most importantly, getting new stuff is really, really hard. So…
Incoming livestream: in… I'm going to broadly characterize the Silicon Valley community as, in many cases, you just get an API key, and you spin it up, and, like, you're good to go, and you're using it now in your enterprise. Good. Go.
Incoming livestream: That is absolutely not how it works for us. So, we have this thing called the authority to operate, but before the authority to operate is the procurement. So, multi-year enterprise procurement cycle, those of you working in large enterprises are very familiar with the multi-year enterprise procurement cycle.
Incoming livestream: What we have, which is a little different, is our enterprise security workflow actually doesn't really execute till after the procurement workflow.
Incoming livestream: And sometimes they can disagree. So, we have definitely had security products where 2 years of procurement, then 2 years of accreditation, and then after that, everybody has changed out, and the new people are like, yeah, we don't think that's safe anymore, so you don't get to have that thing.
Incoming livestream: four years down the drain. Just keep that in mind.
Incoming livestream: One thing I'm not going to talk about today is classification requirements, so…
Incoming livestream: all of this stuff is fractal, because everything I'm talking about is just for using them on unclassified systems, or unclassified, up to what we currently call CUI, which is controlled unclassified information, which is…
Incoming livestream: Still unclassified, but sensitive. Once you start getting into classification, secret and above, then everything multiplies by an order of magnitude, but I can't even talk about what that entails, so just understand I am leaving classification stuff out of this today.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so I will call Phase 1 broadly the research preview stage. So this was 2023. I was just coming back from DARPA at home.
Incoming livestream: I am sitting playing around with, and I'm sure everybody else in the room is probably
Incoming livestream: doing the same, messing around with ChatGPT, and, like, writing really cool notes on LinkedIn about, oh, hey, there's this cool thing called Code Interpreter that just came out, and it can do all your data analysis for you, mostly, kind of, if you don't care about accuracy. Yeah. So it was really good. So, I'm messing around doing that at home.
Incoming livestream: And then at work, I'm seeing all the memos, so Space Force was first with the official memo that came out that said, there will be no enterprise use of AI, period, do not use any AI tools.
Incoming livestream: Most of the other services, informally or formally went along with that. So what did that mean? So, in practice.
Incoming livestream: you had 95% of your workforce who already didn't care about AI, or thought it was going to take their jobs, or just hated it on general principles, and so they were very happy to not use AI. And then you had the 5% of power users, like myself, like my team, who were very interested in seeing, you know, testing what it could do from nascent states, and so you had a lot of this…
Incoming livestream: shadow security work going on, where people would be like, yeah, okay, I'm gonna run home so I can go throw this into AI Studio and see what I get, and then come back.
Incoming livestream: Now, no actual sensitive information was passed, but…
Incoming livestream: if you're just asking questions about a capability, you can get a lot of good information to relate back to things. So, we were absolutely doing a lot of that.
Incoming livestream: So that's mid-2023. Going into late 2023, we got a new capability called Camo GPT. So, those of you who are Air Force may have heard of Nipper GPT. That got a little bit more press. Not gonna talk about that today, because I'm not as familiar with that. We were primarily using CAMO, which was the Army's version.
Incoming livestream: So this was accredited for use. It went through the whole ATO cycle in record time in late 2023. This was amazing. So, now we no longer had to do the dance of…
Incoming livestream: go to the unapproved tool that we're not supposed to use and ask it questions, and then come back and then translate that into CUI. Now we can just go to this tool and actually ask it questions with CUI-relevant data and get answers back.
Incoming livestream: However, this was insufficient. Why was this insufficient? Well, three reasons. One, the models were just not
Incoming livestream: good. For those of you who have used, Llama 270, it is… it was good for its time. It still remains, you know, a good LLM. But when you're at home, and your people are using, GPT for Turbo, or I think Gemini Pro had just come out at that point,
Incoming livestream: going… stepping back from that to the limitations of Llama 2, are a lot. So that's mostly for your power users who are just turning up their nose at the thing.
Incoming livestream: For your more general users, the bigger issue we had was, on the front end. So, often not thought about, but there's probably just as much work that goes into the models on the back end for the AI developing companies.
Incoming livestream: as goes into the front end of how you're operating with those models and operating around them. So, the two big things that, you know, ChatGPT had, Gemini had.
Incoming livestream: others had, were document parsing and web browsing. So, the tool we had did not have those tools. So, explaining to a general user, okay, so you want to extract information from a PDF? That's a great use case.
Incoming livestream: But first, you need to open it up, and you need to copy and paste all of the stuff out of it into a text file, and then upload the text file, because, oh, you can't also paste into the clipboard, because the little box only accepts, you know, 400-something characters, so you have to actually upload a text file, and by this point, you have lost
Incoming livestream: 95% of the general user community.
Incoming livestream: Also, web browsing, like, that was not a thing, so there was no way to say, hey, go search the internet and get context on this, it was just limited to general knowledge retrieval. So, again, two things made it largely unusable for anything but a research briefing.
Incoming livestream: And then finally, availability. All of this stuff was best effort. These…
Incoming livestream: there was lots of resources that were put into it, but fundamentally, it was still, a bunch of GPUs that were running in somebody's server farm somewhere in the world. It was not being hosted with cloud-hosted data centers, or at least if…
Incoming livestream: It was, it wasn't the, you know, there wasn't a lot of resource being put to that. So in many cases.
Incoming livestream: you would hit availability timeouts, or if you were trying to do anything big, especially once we started experimenting with RAG-type stuff, we were getting, query responses back in hours versus minutes, which clearly didn't help very much. So… so yeah, that's where things stood for us in 2023.
Incoming livestream: Okay. 2024? Hey! We've got a new platform! It's using commercial APIs! It's reliable, it's got all the frontier models, problem solved! Right?
Incoming livestream: Yeah, no, tokens. So, hey, guess what? You put a premium IAP shop in my enterprise platform, and I'm so excited about this, thank you. So, we all got a bunch of tokens to use, and for bureaucratic political reasons, there was
Incoming livestream: No designation of power users versus normal users, so everybody got one allocation of tokens. And…
Incoming livestream: without naming the provider, the provider basically took the generalized API cost that you could get through, your AWSs or your Azures, and they just multiplied that by a factor of 10 to get their profit margin, and they sold that back to us. So…
Incoming livestream: Equivalently, what happens is, for general use, office use case, you know, mostly fine. For the average user who's asking, you know, summarize this two-page document, fine, help me draft this three-paragraph email, fine.
Incoming livestream: But for my forensics guys who are like, okay, I've got a 20-page log file, and I want you to… I'm gonna put that in there, and then I want you to compare it to this other 20-page log file from 3 days ago, and I want you to diff it and look for, you know, not just diffs, but actual, like, meaningful differences.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, you do that once, and okay, half your quota's gone for the month.
Incoming livestream: So, we brought this up as a problem, and they said, oh, we acknowledge this is a problem, and here is the process for how you fix it. You ask for more tokens, and this requires 7 signatures and 7 justifications for very high-ranking people who don't understand what an LLM is. So…
Incoming livestream: Yeah, in practice, the process was, let's call it effectively impossible.
Incoming livestream: So, fundamentally, we were still using Camo GPT for what we could, we were burning our tokens by, like, day one or two, and then everybody was still going and using AI Studio, though we don't talk about that.
Incoming livestream: Alright, so we're caught up to today, right? Phase 3, fancy enterprise agreements. Those of you who may know, GenAI.mil just rolled out. It's the DoD-wide AI platform.
Incoming livestream: Several major AI enterprise platforms are connecting to it, so now, if you're a worker, within the department, you can just go to genai.mil, and you can hit what's there and use the enterprise versions, so not somebody's, like.
Incoming livestream: self-wrapped, self-hosted, you know, hey, we're just wrapping the API with our own custom web front end, but the actual… has the good UI front end that these tools have developed.
Incoming livestream: So…
Incoming livestream: That's what's coming. So now we're into culture challenges, right? So, one of the problems we have in the Army is, this thing called… what I call the silo reflex, which is whenever a new technology comes out, we put it in a box.
Incoming livestream: And we say, okay, Joe, you're really smart at this new tech, so you're the box guy. Anytime any questions come up about the box, any generals wanna know, have questions about the box, I'm gonna say, Joe's the smart guy in the box, and he's gonna answer all your questions for you. And that's fine, like, that's…
Incoming livestream: that's a starting point, that you have to do that. Like, you know, back in the day, there was the computer guy, and anytime anybody had any questions about computers, it was like, go talk to Joe, he's a computer guy, he'll answer your computer box questions.
Incoming livestream: I was the cyber guy for a long time. I was the guy who owned the CyberBox, and people would ask me questions about the CyberBox, and I would say, yes, I can tell you lots of cool things about the CyberBox.
Incoming livestream: is this a good idea? It's always a good idea to start. The question is, do you need to progress past that? In many cases, maybe you don't. Like, so, you know, space or VR,
Incoming livestream: These are technologies that it's okay that you probably leave it in a box, and you just have a specialist who comes and talks to you about it. Obviously, if you're in the Space Force, not so much space, but if you're in the Army, we don't do too much with space as affecting the whole enterprise, so you can probably safely leave that in the box.
Incoming livestream: things like GPS and computers, those clearly should not have been in the box, and those should have been generalized as soon as possible, so the faster we can get those out there, the better. Cyber, still kind of figuring out how much the whole enterprise needs to be part of that versus just a specialized-in-the-box thing. Drones is a little newer of a tech.
Incoming livestream: Same battle, we're battling that right now, where do we have a drone corps that is the people who do just the drones, and they're the drone experts for everybody? Or do we push drones out to all of our fighting forces and say, you guys are all going to be drone experts now because that's the future of warfighting?
Incoming livestream: again, still figuring that out. So, you know, the takeaway is AI, is this going to look more like VR, or more like PCs? I would say last year, it's definitely tipping more in the PC direction. Before that, you can make a case for either side, but that's interesting. I'm not sure how it's going to play out.
Incoming livestream: Alright, so overall, what I've talked about today is… this is the pattern, right? You have an access problem, we solved the access problem, we solved that by centralization. Then we moved on to cost problems.
Incoming livestream: We solved that by enterprise agreements.
Incoming livestream: And now we're on phase 3, which is a culture problem. What is going to solve this? Like…
Incoming livestream: what are we going to learn? How are we going to figure out that a lot of the requirements documents
Incoming livestream: You know, going back to that original, like, 4-year requirement discussion we had before, a lot of our requirements documents right now.
Incoming livestream: they exist as people's chat histories on various LLM platforms. So, how do we extract the knowledge out of those chat histories and actually get it from the operators down at the lower technical levels?
Incoming livestream: and get it to the enterprise procurement folks so they can understand. These are the types of questions people are asking, and we need to take those questions, and we need to wrap them in some kind of tool that the rest of the enterprise can broadly be familiar with.
Incoming livestream: Alright, that's my talk. So, I'm retiring October 26th, and I'm exploring what's next, so please feel free to come out and talk to me about any of that today. Thank you. Alright, first of all, I…
Incoming livestream: I don't think your slides are up. Shared, right? What's that? You haven't shared your slides. I will share… I will share the slides in the Slack. Okay, great. There's a thread for that. Alright, questions. Any questions? Okay. Any other questions before?
Incoming livestream: Is our Cyber thinking about extending those capabilities to the reserve component? Because we're not on Nipper.
Incoming livestream: are… genai.mil, or what…
Incoming livestream: Yeah, so gen AI.mil is available to everybody in the DoD. Now, the problem of getting people onto Nipper so that they can access that tool, which only lives on Nipper.
Incoming livestream: is still absolutely a challenge. I completely understand that. There are tools for this. We do have…
Incoming livestream: Azure Virtual Desktop, we have some mobile tools that are coming out, we have some BYOD tools coming out. I am not the program manager for those tools. It is something that is thought about, but fully acknowledged that there are absolutely challenges for Guard and Reserve that are probably not being met as well as they could.
Incoming livestream: Hey, it's John Franlich. I, teach, I'm over here. Yep. Chase. Okay.
Incoming livestream: I teach at a local university malware analysis, so from your perspective, and including AI, so… any advice on what you're looking for in future…
Incoming livestream: Military folks?
Incoming livestream: When it comes to malware and… AI,
Incoming livestream: So, I would say, what we're looking for primarily is people who…
Incoming livestream: are not just solving challenges in a vacuum, but understand, how to take those technical challenges and relate them back to, key problems that people are having, right? This isn't a thing that's new to AI in general. This is a problem that's…
Incoming livestream: okay, you wrote a technical report, you solved some things, great, but why is that useful? What is the so what of that? And AI could potentially help you with that with some degree, but you have to have enough of the level of understanding to be able to
Incoming livestream: go back to the chatbot and say, okay, help me boil this down for a non-technical stakeholder who doesn't need 7 pages of, here's all the methods I decompiled, and here's what they do, and here's the hooks they have, and here's what the process is it affects. They just need to know, like.
Incoming livestream: can I turn the thing back on, or do I have to wait for 2 more days before I can turn the thing back on? So as long as you can, you know, think about how you can translate it in that perspective, obviously this depends on if you're looking more at senior roles or at junior roles, but, yes, that's kind of where I would go with that.
Incoming livestream: With regard to the AI being sort of centralized, can you talk a little bit more, how you handle fine-tuning or specialized model for individual departments and specialized teams? Do those get housed in the same centralized location?
Incoming livestream: So, we haven't seen a lot of benefit to, fine-tuning models or specializing models yet. Our procurement cycles are so long that, by the time you successfully fine-tune or specialize a model, the general model has advanced long enough that you're not getting the advantages from the fine-tuned or specialized models.
Incoming livestream: That might change in the future, but right now, I would say more of the value comes not from providing the fine-tuned or specialized model, but from providing an actual bespoke
Incoming livestream: workflow and task that is relevant and legible to procurement. So, I'm not giving you a fancy model, I'm completing this task for you, and it's done, and you don't have to worry about asking chatbots how to do it.
Incoming livestream: Any other questions?
Incoming livestream: All right, very good. Chase, thanks very much.
Incoming livestream: And, thank you for your service. I'm sure you hear that all the time, so…
Incoming livestream: Alright, thanks very again. Alright, up next, we have, the infamous… although, there's many famous Rob Lees out there, so here's, here's one of three.
Incoming livestream: in the world, and cybersecurity specifically, right? Rob Lesey, yeah. Anyway, I actually had the opportunity to learn, digital forensics under his tutelage.
Incoming livestream: And see where that took me, right? So, anyway. I'm learning from you. All right, again, for those who don't… who aren't on the Slack or need Wi-Fi, here's the, here's the information.
Incoming livestream: And, I'm gonna turn it over to Rob to take it from here. All right. Thanks.
Incoming livestream: Do I… do I actually get more time?
Incoming livestream: Alright.
Incoming livestream: I don't know, people are gonna be upset if I start 3 minutes earlier, they're just rolling in.
Incoming livestream: No, start? Alright.
Incoming livestream: Everyone, so, my name is Rob Lee, one of the, 18,000 Rob Lees that are running around in, cybersecurity at this point. I'm gonna get the,
Incoming livestream: volume of this thing down, whether it's gonna kill me or not. So…
Incoming livestream: 3 years ago, maybe 2 years ago, I started, you know, being asked a lot of questions about AI, and I have to admit, I don't know that much about AI. I'm still learning. I am, like many of you, struggling on a daily basis, and I think it's important to call out the fact that not everyone rolling around here is, in fact.
Incoming livestream: and expert. I basically dabble a heck of a lot at this point.
Incoming livestream: I am learning on a daily basis, and I find when you end up starting to really focus in on this stuff, the more you feel overwhelmed. The more you feel like you're sinking on a daily basis. So…
Incoming livestream: Having developed the SIFT workstation starting in 2008, so this is almost an 18-year project at this point of a massive amount of digital forensic sensory response tools that initially started as an education capability.
Incoming livestream: that most started using on their back end on being able to do digital forensics into response on a daily basis inside their own organizations. So the premise of this talk is, what if you take an extremely vetted, beat-to-shreds…
Incoming livestream: tool, and you combine it with a little bit of AI reasoning, and let's see what happens. This is entirely an experiment I decided to do based off of, and again, you'll laugh at this.
Incoming livestream: Sands Marketing came to me and said, hey, Rob, we need you to do something digital forensics, which you're known for, and combine AI into it. And we have you scheduled for a talk, and then November 15th, and this date's gonna come key here in a second, November 15th, on a Sunday.
Incoming livestream: to discuss your findings. I'm like, cool. So about 6 weeks prior to that, it occurred to me, because I'm playing around with Claude Code a lot, what if I installed Cloud code on the SIFT workstation and see what it can do? So that was the premise of the talk, I did some experimentation, and my mind was blown. So, let's talk about this.
Incoming livestream: Sadly, not really sadly, two days before my discussion in the talk I was giving.
Incoming livestream: Anthropic released their report using Claude Code on offensive operations.
Incoming livestream: And I was a little bit bummed about this, because apparently the Chinese had the same idea I did, which is combining Claudeco with a bunch of operational tools.
Incoming livestream: and to let it go. And that's essentially what we are doing here with Cloud Code. Now, what we ended up finding here is that when you accelerate offensive operations.
Incoming livestream: using automated AI reasoning, you're able to achieve a speed that goes from… that goes from things that used to take days, if not weeks, to seconds and minutes. And again, if you've started playing around with this, or started taking a look at the speed of what is documented by Anthropic.
Incoming livestream: On what they observed, it is…
Incoming livestream: mind-numbing. So, in order for us to be able to figure this out on the defensive side, we need to say, hey, you know, the idea is matching AI speed with AI speed. So, moving to the next slide…
Incoming livestream: When you end up taking a look at what we are supposed to need to accomplish.
Incoming livestream: Being able to do manual, hands-on typing to do digital forensics incident response work to discover what is in the AM cache, let's do prefetch analysis, let's do event log analysis, let's combine that into a timeline using Plaza, let's do memory analysis.
Incoming livestream: All of these things combined take a lot of time. So, kind of curious, poll for the audience.
Incoming livestream: In order for you to analyze completely a single system during incident response.
Incoming livestream: from start to initial touching of the system, whether it's a deployed agent, you're imaging it… a post image, by the way, and you have the C drive image.
Incoming livestream: How long does it take you from start to finish to create… a report.
Incoming livestream: Final report. Time frames. Throw out numbers.
Incoming livestream: What's that?
Incoming livestream: Three days.
Incoming livestream: Two to three days.
Incoming livestream: What's that? Maybe a week sometimes.
Incoming livestream: Any other… anyone could do it faster. A day?
Incoming livestream: I chose a day, because otherwise the numbers just look unbelievable. What if I said you could do a full day of manual forensics to report in 14 minutes?
Incoming livestream: Okay, we'll come back to this. Alright.
Incoming livestream: Everyone's gonna be a little bit scared, what I'm about to show you, but at the same time, you're gonna be like, wait, that's a game changer.
Incoming livestream: And only someone who knows digital forensics into response can comprehend the report.
Incoming livestream: So I don't want to say this is the end of human existence when it comes to digital forensics.
Incoming livestream: There's no way, if you look at the output, I've put a bunch of resources in the Slack, if you look at the report, if you just say, figure that out, it is not… you need to have a formal understanding of what this looks like. So, when you take anthropic code, the reasoning side, you add an MCP, and you add it to the SIFT workstation, the peanut butter and the chocolate here.
Incoming livestream: We're sitting on top of something that does natural language processing, basically in your…
Incoming livestream: Claude prompt. You basically ask it a question, and that question could be, do memory analysis.
Incoming livestream: So, here's essentially what you would do. You would ask a question. You have the memory image there. I'd like you to analyze this memory image and find anything malicious.
Incoming livestream: It automatically knows, based off of the context that you provided, it just… and I redid this yesterday, just as a test, a little bit of training, giving it…
Incoming livestream: contextual analysis of the different tools that are on the SIFT workstation.
Incoming livestream: telling it how it works, maybe even just using public guides. I even had it go look at the man pages, run the commands, pull out the flags.
Incoming livestream: understand what the command line interface is, and then it built the CloudMD file and the skills.mb files that are sitting underneath each of the different tasks that you wanted to accomplish. So, to give you an idea of what this looks like.
Incoming livestream: I like demos. Essentially, I have multiple images in here, and I basically say, oh, that's the wrong one.
Incoming livestream: Do-do-do.
Incoming livestream: You ask it to basically find evil in the memory image, It goes through…
Incoming livestream: And you can see here, pay close attention to the minutes it takes for the overall processing.
Incoming livestream: And again, I might just go and skip to the end here.
Incoming livestream: It's cause it's more fun to be able to see what the output is.
Incoming livestream: Again, 18 minutes to do this image.
Incoming livestream: And what we end up having here is a final report for the memory forensics, and this automatically creates this, by the way, it's because you asked it to.
Incoming livestream: You end up seeing in here, the adversary achieved initial execution using WMI,
Incoming livestream: And you can see me scroll through the overall report here. Finds a malicious binary, p.exe, into masking temp directory. You get a system profile. All this stuff is automatically determined for you. Threat actor context, attack chain.
Incoming livestream: Malware deployment, persistence, it's kind of going fast here because I have a limited amount of time. Code injection analysis.
Incoming livestream: Network connections, command and control, Full malicious process tree…
Incoming livestream: chronological activity. I didn't even tell it to do this, it just did it, because I gave it context surrounding the tools, what this looks like. It probably went online saying, here's what an official report looks like.
Incoming livestream: And… False positives, it found F-response for the imaging capability for the agent.
Incoming livestream: It recommends remediation tactics.
Incoming livestream: And then it has the output reports that it has created here.
Incoming livestream: All that took, a single memory image, about 18 minutes. The only reason it took that long is because I had to press yes.
Incoming livestream: on continue, continue, continue, continue, continue. Now, I've gotten around that, but from initial build yesterday, just to test the theory one more time, an hour and a half of skill building.
Incoming livestream: And I gave it a memory image, and then I hit go. Now, the resources I'm distributing at the end of the week, or end of today, sorry, end of week, I'm, like, thinking teaching here again, at the end of the day.
Incoming livestream: I'm gonna give you access to all the memory images and C drive images, so you want to replicate this, by all means, do it.
Incoming livestream: Now, you need to test this stuff, too. So…
Incoming livestream: The brain behind this all is the CloudMD file. It basically is the prime directive, the orchestrator that's sitting behind the scenes. It is allowing you to do deterministic boundaries. You could hardcore the toolpass. You don't need to let it guess.
Incoming livestream: It is allowing you to say, run this capability, do not run this one. I also could give it some rules. Like, I had to figure this one out, too. Questions asked during a test, run end-to-end, don't ask for directions, just move through the overall aspect of what I'm trying to get it to do.
Incoming livestream: Then we need to build its skills.
Incoming livestream: with so many capabilities built in the ZIFT workstation, we need to have some familiarization here that is going to hopefully reduce the overall context rot, be able to give it a path to success, and I'm not even building full skill-based MCP servers, I'm just basically giving MD
Incoming livestream: markdown files for what the skills are, here's your goals, here's what they do, here's how you potentially execute this, so if I say I'd like you to do memory analysis, it's automatically going to be able to go do this. Now, again…
Incoming livestream: as a part of this, you know, resources, I have all the skill files, all the CloudMD files.
Incoming livestream: the overall one and the subdirectory one, all created. You could go back and replicate this. I have instructions, I have a notebook LM. You could ask it, I would like to go through and do this. It is all sitting there in front of you. Feel free, go about your business.
Incoming livestream: So, what about errors? This is where…
Incoming livestream: you could ask it, and build into the contextual analysis, and have something continually running behind the scenes that says, if you receive an error, I would like you to start performing self-correction. This also helps with the overall context rot that is achieved. Essentially.
Incoming livestream: If you continue running the case again and again and again, it'll slowly, over time, forget the context earlier in the case. The other thing that's really fascinating here about this
Incoming livestream: is that once you go through a single image in a single case, it'll remember aspects of that initial intrusion, especially if you're hitting other systems. So if you find a malicious code on one system, it's assuming it's looking for something contextually related on System 2, System 3, System 4, so the speed naturally increases as you're working through…
Incoming livestream: The different exercise.
Incoming livestream: So, because people don't like me talking about things, let me just show…
Incoming livestream: how this works. So, demo time number one.
Incoming livestream: Here's the threat group. Here's what happened. We end up having Stark Research Labs. For anyone who's taken 508 at SANS, you'll definitively remember this network.
Incoming livestream: We have a catalyst. Lead researcher Tim Dungan inadvertently signaled project completion on Twitter. What a dork. What is he thinking here?
Incoming livestream: Our carbon lab just consumed 9 gigawatts of energy, and could likely power a small city overnight. What was I thinking? Going to be fired. The breach, Adversary, Crimson Osprey, leveraging historical tactics of APT Hydra and ABT Hammer. Yes, they're totally fake, by the way.
Incoming livestream: Impact traditional infrastructure, exchanged mail server and web server forced offline.
Incoming livestream: Compromised vectors, perimeter defenses bypass, key administrative accounts, compromised deep system persistent established.
Incoming livestream: Local defense status, you're overwhelmed because you're using hands on keyboard.
Incoming livestream: So, what you need to achieve, scope of the compromise, the hunt for persistence, the track lateral movement, and assess exfiltration.
Incoming livestream: So, once I have all this built, you have all of your disk images, memory images in here. The single command that I type.
Incoming livestream: Find evil.
Incoming livestream: N.
Incoming livestream: And I typed this one out because it's fun to just watch… Look how slow humans are.
Incoming livestream: Type, type, type, and…
Incoming livestream: This is the only command that I gave it for writing that comprehensive report. Write comprehensive report. And then, of course, I had to think about, well, what does that mean? And I'm like, compreh… I just, like, I need it even more simple. Comprehensive report and PD… I'm like, my brain's on melt here. Backspace, backspace, backspace.
Incoming livestream: In PDF.
Incoming livestream: Good English there, Rob.
Incoming livestream: Alright.
Incoming livestream: And we go.
Incoming livestream: And when you end up watching this.
Incoming livestream: You can see it's actually executing a lot of cool things. I'll just let this run for a little bit, just so you can see.
Incoming livestream: what this looks like beyond this means. Now, this is on 16X. Of course, if you're watching the minutes, you know, scroll by, you can tell that is not reality.
Incoming livestream: It's finding things, finding things, finding things.
Incoming livestream: In total, at the end here.
Incoming livestream: We are at 14 minutes, 27 seconds for the analysis of that C drive.
Incoming livestream: Pretty cool.
Incoming livestream: Let's take a look.
Incoming livestream: Just to re-emphasize the length of time that this took.
Incoming livestream: This is the report that it automatically generated, without any additional input.
Incoming livestream: You can see the executive summary.
Incoming livestream: By the way, in terms of accuracy, since I compromised this system, I definitely know everything that's on here. This is 100% accurate for what it's finding here. It creates a timeline, initial access.
Incoming livestream: And again, I'm releasing this report so you could go through it and examine on yourself. Malware inventory.
Incoming livestream: Persistent mechanisms.
Incoming livestream: PowerShell transcript evidence.
Incoming livestream: Did not miss anything.
Incoming livestream: Network indicator is a compromise.
Incoming livestream: Actually, by the way, it kind of skipped by it, is the MITRE ATT,
Incoming livestream: overlays on top of this, too. And then went through remediation recommendations and steps.
Incoming livestream: When do you end up taking a look at this report.
Incoming livestream: Offline, you're gonna notice that this is earth-shattering, fun, what the heck.
Incoming livestream: an hour and a half configuration, there's gotta be a catch. As far as I can tell right now, the catch is…
Incoming livestream: AI weaknesses, context rot.
Incoming livestream: Self-correction, it works out of the box, just like everything else in AI, but the more you repeat it and repeat it, repeat it, repeat it, over time, it is going to slowly…
Incoming livestream: become more dumb, just because of the fact how that, you know, functionality works. The more you're running it against the same type of intrusion, that you're taking a look at.
Incoming livestream: So, and again, when we end up taking a look at this, I have some additional stuff at the end here I'm gonna cover.
Incoming livestream: We need to increase the speed of our incident response capabilities to match the speed of the offensive teams leveraging the same capabilities.
Incoming livestream: This is amazing. Great proof of concept here.
Incoming livestream: But, one more thing I'm gonna cover.
Incoming livestream: One more thing.
Incoming livestream: So in order for us, and I'm gonna be talking about this at the RSA talk as well that I'm gonna be giving in about 2 weeks.
Incoming livestream: When we're starting to think about leveraging what we have as a community over what the adversaries and the threat groups and the criminal organizations don't have.
Incoming livestream: Is we have a lot of us.
Incoming livestream: And they have a small development team.
Incoming livestream: And they usually work in secret.
Incoming livestream: They usually don't like to share their toys with one another.
Incoming livestream: On the opposite side, we have the open source community.
Incoming livestream: All of the things I'm showing you here, the SIFT workstation, all the tools, all the capabilities, is open source. Now, if you noticed, a small little project that started on a weekend in someone's basement in November.
Incoming livestream: By the way, I kind of use this as a gestation.
Incoming livestream: But, Claudebot… was created over a weekend at the end of November.
Incoming livestream: It really became popular at the beginning of January, in which the news started to really accelerate on it, and logarithmically accelerated from that point. Part of the reason is, you have a lot of eyeballs hitting it, a lot of developers simultaneously hitting that one point in time.
Incoming livestream: and it explodes into a significant, revolutionary AI capability.
Incoming livestream: despite your skill level, despite if you're an AI developer, if you're really good at forensics, if this is your first foray into AI, what if we bring
Incoming livestream: The army of cyber defenders together and saying, let's start working on this as a whole.
Incoming livestream: Now, the other thing I noticed over the past couple years, and I've become fascinated with it, is that these concepts that the AI community is doing…
Incoming livestream: called Hackathons.
Incoming livestream: Hackathons are designed to take an initial proof of concept and accelerate it into a worthy, true candidate capable of being deployed in enterprise environments that will reduce the overall capabilities, or reduce the overall mistakes, and increase the trust of these capabilities.
Incoming livestream: Inside the organizations. So what the offensive teams don't have is a thousand of us.
Incoming livestream: And what if SANS, because we're giving this away for free anyways, we sponsor a hackathon trying to get the entire cybersecurity community working on this together? So the idea here is we have two tracks.
Incoming livestream: that we're going to have a bunch of cool prizes for. I'll give you a hint of one. For first prize, $10,000.
Incoming livestream: For the team or individual that has the most significant development, and $7,500 for the second team.
Incoming livestream: Those two tracks we're going to be looking at is, number one is the forensic MCP Engineering. We have a bunch of tools, Claude doesn't know how the parameters, outputs, and failure modes natively. I'd like you to take my proof of concept and accelerate it to 10 to 100x, so by the end of the hackathon, starting one April through…
Incoming livestream: May 15th.
Incoming livestream: We're gonna be able to develop as a community something that you'll be able to have trust, capability, and potentially counter the offensive teams that are starting to leverage cloud code.
Incoming livestream: Track two is to cure the context rot issue. How would we potentially go about doing that?
Incoming livestream: In the end, what I'm hoping for is having a total of $22,000 in total prize pool. I've reached out to Anthropic because I'm very interested in seeing if they're gonna be able to give tokens, you know, so you don't have to spend a lot of cost developing this behind the scenes.
Incoming livestream: So that they'd be able to work.
Incoming livestream: with us, and be able to give resources to the community. I'm gonna have disk images, I'm gonna have memory images, I have the SIFT workstation, I have an example exemplar.
Incoming livestream: case that someone's turned in. Steve Anson from SANS has developed his own backend, so you could look at that and saying that would be a pretty good implementation. You could build off of that. But the idea here is we want to work together as a community, because there's a there there that I'm looking at.
Incoming livestream: And the question is, can we create a very solid incident response AI capability?
Incoming livestream: by 1 June.
Incoming livestream: That's my challenge to the community, and I think we could do it. This is my contact information. The resources have been posted in the Slack channels.
Incoming livestream: And more of those resources, I'm putting up a website, I was hoping to get it done tonight, but just like everything else.
Incoming livestream: I can now say, hey, I could get something done in a day. And that day is gonna be protocol, sift.ai. It's gonna have all the resources, all the images, this presentation, a description of what it is, everything else. I'm gonna build this probably up in about a day or two, just registered the domain yesterday.
Incoming livestream: Contact information, everything else, resources online, and questions!
Incoming livestream: That was fantastic. Okay, questions?
Incoming livestream: Hi. I was, curious about the context rod problem and how you sort of navigated it. You mentioned that you didn't give, Claude Code, like, all of the SIFT manuals at once.
Incoming livestream: how did you go about, like, the… I guess, like, the lazy loading of it? Like, was there an orchestrator agent, or did you just tell Claude Code to, like, figure it out?
Incoming livestream: I use Cloud Code as an orchestrator agent, basically just start, hey, go through.
Incoming livestream: look at the man pages, look at all the tools on the SIFT, I had an entire list of them, and run the man page, and I said, if there's no man page, run the tool, make sure it runs accurately, and see the command line flags, and then look it up online to see if there's any documentation. It literally is using Claude code.
Incoming livestream: Then I said, red team it, make sure it works. I actually asked the question, like, you just gave it. I'm like, you know, because I'm learning too, I don't know how to solve this issue. If I did, I want to do a hackathon. So I'm trying to figure it out. But again, when I rebuilt it, it literally is…
Incoming livestream: natural language into Claude, asking the same questions you just did, and just continually fighting with it. And I fought with it for about an hour and a half before I said, okay, are we… we're probably good enough. Let's go ahead and start running it through analysis.
Incoming livestream: Great question.
Incoming livestream: I had a… my question is similar about context rot. I think… and some latest research just found, even with these million context windows, I mean, the first turn, it gets dumb. I mean, it… you've got a larger window.
Incoming livestream: But it still gets done really quick, and I found this myself with OpenCloud, tried to use the million window, I have to crank it down to compact it, like, 100,000 tokens. Right.
Incoming livestream: for what you're doing, isn't it just… is it as easy as just start a new session to get rid of the context rod? I mean, that's what we're doing, right? You could. Anything that you're doing, or did you find a better way? There's not a better way right now, but I'm looking at if you wanted to expand upon this in an enterprise setting.
Incoming livestream: and have it run across multiple systems at one time, doing, like, let's use pre-fish analysis, looking for p.exe on a thousand systems.
Incoming livestream: That scale is going to create context rot pretty quickly.
Incoming livestream: So on a single system, like standard forensics, no problem, just start, restart, just like you do on, you know, Claud. It'll say, hey, we ran out of context, start a new chat. Here, it's a little bit different, because if we really want something enterprise-worthy, it's gonna have to be able to maintain its current data set across a longer period of time.
Incoming livestream: Threat, you know, threat intelligence, all these other feeds that you could see where this thing could go.
Incoming livestream: Yeah. Yeah, I had a question on… you mentioned that it had 100% accuracy on the… My report, yeah. Exactly. My question exactly on that is, is that part of your SANS class? Did you do any assessment on, is Cloud Code cheating, looking up answers online comparatively to actually running on it?
Incoming livestream: Fair point, but the amount of detail that's in there, it would be, shocking. Now I could probably disconnect it from…
Incoming livestream: you know, certain things to be able to say, do not look up online, you know, and to be able to do those checks, but great question. I assume no, but
Incoming livestream: based on the amount of detail that's in there, it would be shocking that it didn't pull it from directly to tool-based output. The other thing in there we do have is a log of every single command that it run, and the output files, every single thing that it built a report off of, so you do know that it's actually grabbing it locally, but is it inferring things online? Oh, good question.
Incoming livestream: Okay, give a hand for Rob, that was excellent.
Incoming livestream: Okay.
Incoming livestream: By the way, I would love to see if, it can forensicate OpenClaw, or itself, right? So, anyway, alright. Next up, Mika.
Incoming livestream: From Elastic. I actually saw your presentation, and I'm looking forward to this one, too, so…
Incoming livestream: Oh, okay. Well, I'm still looking forward to it. Alright, over to Mika, thanks very much.
Incoming livestream: Alright, if your computer… To listen about detection rules and endpoint for detection engineers, you're in the right place.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, my name's Micah Einson, I'm the team lead for the Threat Research and Detection Engineering team at Elastic.
Incoming livestream: Alright, let's get to it.
Incoming livestream: So you know the landscape. It's growing busy. There's new tools, there's new agents, there's, new SDKs, there's a lot of things going on by the day. People are trying out new, different tools all the time, and so, that's part of the problem.
Incoming livestream: I saw this on Reddit, in case you guys missed it the other day, someone said, hey, I have this extension that I downloaded, and it's trying to connect silently to livefootballTickets.com, and this was kind of the scary part. They said, very simply, I have no idea what extension it could be, and
Incoming livestream: That's, like, the issue, right?
Incoming livestream: For us, you know, users, they're installing a bunch of things online, all the time, and it's hard for us to audit them, especially as people are dropping.
Incoming livestream: Can you hear me? Is that better? Okay.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, so users are installing tools faster, and it's making it harder for them.
Incoming livestream: To, be audited, so, yeah.
Incoming livestream: Yep, your devs are running these, right now, so that's, again, the problem. They're installing these things, they're tools, they're running the different MCP serves, they're trying different IDs, and so, yeah.
Incoming livestream: They're on their endpoints. Like, these tools are spawning shells, they're writing files, they're making network calls, and the idea is that your EDI really has no clear visibility on what's driving it.
Incoming livestream: So I have a couple stats here about, you know, how devs are using them. A lot of code is being merged by these different tools, cursor, clause, so on and so forth and so forth.
Incoming livestream: A lot of heavy users these days, and it's gonna continue to grow, obviously. People are using this stuff.
Incoming livestream: So where do you start? That's, like, the big question. You have a bunch of different data that's coming in, so where do you start, especially from a detection engineer? How do you…
Incoming livestream: how do you try to triage this, right? And so the first thing that, you know, we recommend is by looking at endpoints by host count, and looking at where all of the DNS information is going to. So at the top, we have
Incoming livestream: based on some of our telemetry, a lot of data's going to Anthropic, ChatGBT, Claude, so on and so forth. These things make sense, they seem normal, and that's gonna be part of the problem that we talk about in just a minute here.
Incoming livestream: The next thing is, if you're looking at the endpoints of the binaries, you can start looking at code signatures, based on some of our telemetry.
Incoming livestream: Over a small window, for all intents and purposes, we didn't see many unsigned code signature binaries. So, effectively, as a detection engineer perspective, you could try to write a simple rule that says, hey, if there is a process, then the code signature doesn't exist, or it's false, then you can flag on that.
Incoming livestream: But that's kinda… it's gonna be weak, especially as you see many of the types of activity that we've seen is signed and trusted. Obviously, that stuff makes sense, right?
Incoming livestream: You can start looking at process ancestry. So, top processes, spawn by genoid souls, you can start looking there.
Incoming livestream: But then you start to see more and more of the same kind of problem. You see diff… we've seen different tools like,
Incoming livestream: Cloud and Cursor, spawn and Git, and GH, and Node, and Bash, and so on and so forth, and
Incoming livestream: a lot of the unsigned ones are buried in that noise. You have to really sift through the data to find these different things. It gets a little bit even more complicated when you have these long command lines, right? When you have these Gen AI tools which are chaining different multi-piped commands together.
Incoming livestream: Right? So it's harder for us as detection engineers to spot these things.
Incoming livestream: Okay, keep close.
Incoming livestream: File modification, right? So that's the next thing you can start looking at, whether gen AI tools are writing any file activity.
Incoming livestream: But again, it kind of gets into that same theme where we see some Gen AI tools are… they're touching, maybe config files. You see other things that are being spawned that looks like they're touching just regular Py files that make sense. Developers are using tools to create code, so a lot of that stuff is…
Incoming livestream: you know, business as usual, if you will, right? Where we're concerned about is whether we have these Gen AI tools touching sensitive files, or config files, and rewriting, and establishing persistence, and defensive invasion techniques.
Incoming livestream: Those things are all hidden under all this noise of activity that's being written, right? So, from a detection engineering perspective, you could try to say, we're gonna monitor file rights to AI config paths by unexpected processes. That's one idea you can try to do.
Incoming livestream: From there.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, so you can take these ideas. So, taking just kind of a step back, right? You can look at network data, you can look at processes, ancestry, you can look at file rights, you can look at a bunch of endpoint telemetry. We're not talking about the model provider, artifacts that can be ingested, like guardrails and so on and so forth, that you might get from
Incoming livestream: you know, Azure, or AWS Bedrock, or, you know, so on and so forth. But we're talking purely from an endpoint perspective.
Incoming livestream: So, at Elastic, we do… we have shipped a couple rolls. Towards the end, I'm gonna show you a couple links so you can find where we have the stuff. We're open, so we do provide these things availability.
Incoming livestream: available today. But we have some, rules for credential access via GenAI. We have, ideas around persistence for GenAI tools, unusual DNS calls, suspicious URLs.
Incoming livestream: When you start looking at some of the data and some of the alerts that come from those things, you start to allow us to, like, go digger, start pulling and prodding.
Incoming livestream: We can ask some more targeted questions, like, why is a Gen AI tool, touching a plist? Or, or why is a, you know, Gen AI tool touching some login.json, or some cookies file, credentials file?
Incoming livestream: So again, that is the problem, right? The alert fired, a suspicious process ran, good luck finding out if it is a human or an LM did it, right?
Incoming livestream: Looking, again, at the presentation we just saw 5 minutes ago, this is the problem. We have people who are running Cloud, running their tools, and they're just executing things on the command line, and it makes it really hard for us, right?
Incoming livestream: So we… guys like Rob, they give me heartaches, so…
Incoming livestream: Talk about the intent attribution, it's broken, right? We have the developer, we have an AI agent.
Incoming livestream: They're executing some shell, some bash command, and for us, it looks identical, nearly identical. The telemetry looks the same. We have a process PID, we have a user, they're running a command, right? Same PID, same user, same command line, nearly identical telemetry.
Incoming livestream: To make things worse, then there's that bigger threat model, there's prompt injection techniques, there's malicious MCP servers, there's Trojan AI tools…
Incoming livestream: Sorry, brother. I might be my watch. There's many different tools out there that are essentially trying to, be downloaded and installed, do you want to switch me out?
Incoming livestream: Hello, hello. Test, test. Okay, try this.
Incoming livestream: This is a huge…
Incoming livestream: How's that?
Incoming livestream: Sounds better?
Incoming livestream: Hold on.
Incoming livestream: Awful Santa.
Incoming livestream: Alright. Yes, but I actually… Okay. Sounds better.
Incoming livestream: Okay. Going from a threat model, again, there's many different threat models, just to kind of speed through this. All these things are hitting AI agents, and let's just take a step back.
Incoming livestream: we don't know if someone YOLO'd, clicked the button, said, go do a thing, and it downloaded a file, or hit the web… hit a website, downloaded a file, executed it, established persistence, and then told it to run some shell command. From our perspective, we don't see the intent, we don't see that from…
Incoming livestream: So, yeah, the big problem, right? So an attacking position, again, I kind of just alluded to this, but imagine there's some poisoned repo file that tricks the AI agent into exfiltrating some data.
Incoming livestream: All through legitimate-looking processes. Again, imagine the developer that's just yellowing, they're clicking the button, just go, go, go. I did hear the call came out with, like, a remote, capability, too, or imagine you're on your phone, just hit and go, right? And so this is what we're gonna have to start facing again.
Incoming livestream: From an EDR perspective, we see Curse, our helper, it's a helper tool, we see that saying.
Incoming livestream: ZSH or some bashed man, executing curl. There's no link back to that poison file, we don't see that context, we don't see the prompts, we don't see that natively.
Incoming livestream: So, again, the entire chain looks like some developer running some
Incoming livestream: malicious thing, which, again, you need detection rules for, but again, tying it back to some generic tools, it makes it even harder.
Incoming livestream: So, current telemetry, so what we see, we see process bonds, file events, network events, user context, we can tell, like, hey, if something… if a root is running this, maybe it's suspicious, we see some runtime activity, but moving forward, there's other opportunities, right? We could look at what is the prompt?
Incoming livestream: what was the prompt? What was the model reasoning behind it? Were there some shell built-ins? Let's look at the MCTP tools, or the skills, or the tools that were all embedded into the chain.
Incoming livestream: To really try to find out, was it a human versus an AI?
Incoming livestream: So this is where detection starts to break down a little bit, I'll kind of speed through this a little bit. There's a couple topics here, I won't go into all of them, but essentially, here's a couple ones just to think about.
Incoming livestream: Think about, from a developer perspective, people have different sandboxes. As developers, in one chat, you might have an agent doing another thing, in another chat, you might have it doing something else. In one workspace or another.
Incoming livestream: How do we start stitching the context between these different sessions, where an adversary might try to abuse cross-sessions to achieve their end goal?
Incoming livestream: That's kind of one of the problems that we are running into today, that cross-session loss. And then sandboxing, right? Some sessions, you know, depending on what you're asking these tools to do, they may ask you for permission, so the next question is.
Incoming livestream: How do we detect when an AI agent self-escalated versus a user saying, go?
Incoming livestream: Go do a thing.
Incoming livestream: So we've seen this little bit here, this process ancestry tree here. This is what it looks like to us, or this is what it should look like. Cursor, running cursor help, running some ZSH, shell, running curl. Just that this is what it should look, this is what it should look like.
Incoming livestream: So you can see at the very top, we see curl, CSH, the helper, the user with the developer, but we don't see which prompt triggered it.
Incoming livestream: So getting into some opportunities here,
Incoming livestream: I want to talk a little bit briefly about why that… why just a parent process name is not enough, right? So, if you just go with the parent, right, it's gonna catch just that one… that one level. You're gonna miss the grandchildren. You're gonna miss that ancestry tree, especially when it's chaining multiple commands. You're gonna miss the intent.
Incoming livestream: So the idea is maybe you might want to start walking the full ancestry tree, and hopefully it doesn't get too far down the path.
Incoming livestream: You can look at entity ID intersections, where you're basically trying to correlate
Incoming livestream: down the chain again, between different entities, so you can try to identify, whether it's a genre tool, or in the ancestry, or not.
Incoming livestream: Again, it's just another idea to try to, stitch the children back up to the parent, back up to the grandparent.
Incoming livestream: MCP server detection, just another, idea you can start looking at, right? And so, it's, in some ways, you can… today, you can say, hey, there's a command line that looks like MCP server. You can, as if you're a detection engineer, you can understand how brittle this could be, right? So we're gonna talk about some…
Incoming livestream: ideas that we'd like to see moving forward, but just imagine you can say, hey, this is an MCP server, because under this hood, it's all running, like, Node and some other, you know.
Incoming livestream: shell command, right? So you can start trying to write some MCP server-like detections, but what's still missing is here, we don't know what MCP tool was invoked, we don't know the identity trust level, you know, so again, it's just… it's just not the full picture.
Incoming livestream: Credential access, I kind of talked about that earlier. We can do this open creation modification anytime,
Incoming livestream: Gen AI tool process touches a sensitive file, you can try to start looking at this, you can try to alert and say, hey, is this normal? Why is, you know, why is Alama touching your credentials?
Incoming livestream: So, at a snapshot, we have some rules, we do ship them today. Again, I'm gonna get back to that towards the end, but we have some execution, some C2 stuff, we have some credential access, persistence, deficiency techniques. We can start somewhere, and that's, like, the bottom line here, is that you can start, you don't have to wait until…
Incoming livestream: It's all instrumented.
Incoming livestream: Obviously, we might want to start with, you know, detection rules versus just hunting, so, you know, the idea is to obviously use both, but, start by establishing some hunting queries, use that telemetry to help build out some building blocks for you, and then from there.
Incoming livestream: Use your detection rules to build out more high-fidelity signals.
Incoming livestream: So where the industry needs to go, right? So today's best option is that process parent name, that, that those heuristics really, give us a…
Incoming livestream: Fighting chance, if you will, but it's not good enough.
Incoming livestream: So here's some gaps, right, and this is where, you know, I'm hoping the industry starts to lean in forward and go towards,
Incoming livestream: being able to provide data about the tool use and decision reasoning natively, making that more native and more consistent across the different tools, right? So that's the key.
Incoming livestream: Model refusal events, when it said, hey, I'm not gonna do a thing because of X, Y, and Z. We want to ingest that as well. Token level, tool call attribution, tying that back in, right? We already can pull things in from, the endpoint, like what prompt triggered, and I'm gonna talk about that in just a second with hooks.
Incoming livestream: But yeah, there are some opportunities, and every production role is, quite frankly, a workaround for telemetry that should be built in natively.
Incoming livestream: And then there's a couple different risks here, obviously, you know, as the more data that you pull in, then you have to worry about other things. Compliance and forensics. I'm a detection engineer, so it comes in the back of my mind.
Incoming livestream: But, these are things that we still have to…
Incoming livestream: Take into account as we keep acting as detection engineers for more data.
Incoming livestream: There are agent hooks, right? To no surprise, agent hooks is a powerful tool for us, where we can look at pre-tool calls or session starts when users submitted prompts. We can hook into those signals and find the best way for us to pull out contextual information to enrich our data, right? If an AI tool did a thing, we hook into it.
Incoming livestream: We ingest that into OpenTelemetry, and then we push that back to our seminar EDR.
Incoming livestream: That's the big picture.
Incoming livestream: If you're not familiar with OTEL, it is, just imagine a common lexicon, a way that, the industry should continue to adopt so we can speak the same language.
Incoming livestream: That way, I don't have to write a rule for one vendor or another tool just because they named their tool call a different field. It makes it really hard as a detection engineer to manage all the different rules.
Incoming livestream: So, consistency, semantics, the same lexicon is important for us.
Incoming livestream: Upstream, that… we have started that process, at least at Elastic. We've worked with the OpenTel community to establish some Gen AI semantics, some base fields, and we're gonna continue adding there. We've merged in a couple PRs, we're trying to shape and shift this, but again, the more we see people adopting these things, the better for us. So that's the vision.
Incoming livestream: Hooks, going to hotel, it's native fields at any, any EDR, any… Security solution could ingest.
Incoming livestream: So we talked a little bit about this. If you do use Cloud Code, it's one that already ships OTEL natively. It's a perk, right? So,
Incoming livestream: Whether it's GenAI fills, or their cloud code fills, those are things that are,
Incoming livestream: are great enablers if these tools are already adopting them, right? Some other ones, they're still coming along.
Incoming livestream: And if we get there, then what do we get, right? So again, we have this, this beautiful.
Incoming livestream: You know, language here, or a set of fields where we know, hey, this…
Incoming livestream: process parent, the tool name was Cursor, and this cursor is the thing that spawns shell. We know that it was approved because the user submitted it, and here was the provider, right? We have all this information that we can attribute back down to whether this was something that was permitted, suspicious, anomalous, you get the idea.
Incoming livestream: And then, with it all, we get the prompt, we get… we can…
Incoming livestream: And just, obviously, guardrails and the things that those things provide, pulling the model, pulling the tool.
Incoming livestream: And then, pull all that information down into one cohesive, like, story.
Incoming livestream: And I already mentioned the cloud code. It's kind of the exception here.
Incoming livestream: So, just some quick takeaways here. The idea is to reduce the attack surface, right? So, before writing rules, reduce what you need to detect. That's kind of, like, the
Incoming livestream: one of the bigger problems here is assessing, you know, your inventory first. Know which tools your org should be using, right? You know, scrutinize runtimes. Should Gen AI tools be running as root, right? Should there be some network controls?
Incoming livestream: There's this other, approach.
Incoming livestream: That, I don't hear talked about enough about deciding on whether your org should just be browser-focused or native-focused. It would make things a lot easier. But, you know, obviously that's not gonna work for many developers, but having some separation of powers is a topic that should be continually explored.
Incoming livestream: Obviously DNS network first. We already have seen in our telemetry how some firewalls and gateways are starting to tag data with GenAI fields and whatnot, so we know they have the capability to do that.
Incoming livestream: We just want to speak the same language when we're ingesting that data in,
Incoming livestream: Bake that into our rules.
Incoming livestream: So, just to recap, right, it's like a maturity process, we're gonna continue to grow. Start where you are, build towards full observability. You start with the visibility, those are some things we can do today.
Incoming livestream: Start bringing in things like guardrails, you know, network controls on LM rules, scrutinized root node, and then the long-term game is that full observability. That's the thing that we're trying to get to.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, and finally, if you want to see some of these rules in more detail, just take a look at these two different repos here. You can go to GitHub, you can search for these things here, and it should give you everything you need to know. You can see some of our endpoint and our SIM-based detections, and how we do this. Again, we're open, so you can check it out immediately.
Incoming livestream: That's it.
Incoming livestream: Okay.
Incoming livestream: All right. I have a question. What slideware did you use? Because scrolling within the slide is pretty cool. What are you using here? It's like Notion and some other… Notion. Alright, okay. Alright, questions.
Incoming livestream: Okay, I got one here. I've all got a lot of questions. Okay, so I'll start here, walk my way over there, and go over there. Alright.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, in a… sorry. In an enterprise, how do you get your devs to actually do the agent hooks in the various tooling?
Incoming livestream: Yeah, it depends on how well your endpoint, if you have an endpoint, is mature. If they can roll out a policy that establishes hooks, then that would be the number one way. I've seen some folks who are starting to share,
Incoming livestream: internally in their org, skills, repos, hooks, you can share that and say download, you can kind of do that, but if you're going for enforcement.
Incoming livestream: Then, yeah, you definitely want to go the endpoint route.
Incoming livestream: So…
Incoming livestream: If you have an endpoint, and it's hooked into your agent, and it's installed on people's agents, you… enforcement is like a second nature.
Incoming livestream: just have it installed directly into your EDR, that's the idea.
Incoming livestream: Oh, okay. Yeah, you mentioned next-generation firewalls as a potential source to get more visibility. Do you have a preference on build versus buy? And are there any things out there that you would recommend beyond the next generation firewalls, like any inference level or proxy level?
Incoming livestream: data? Yeah, that's a… it's a good question. So, I'm not in the network and firewall landscape, so I can't speak, you know.
Incoming livestream: too much on that.
Incoming livestream: Hi, if it's possible, could you quantify the amount of, I guess, organizational resources that you use to, I guess, roll this out and, build and develop this? Like, maybe the amount of teams or people, along with, like, maybe the amount of months, if you're allowed to disclose? From the rules perspective, or which part? More just, like, getting,
Incoming livestream: The telemetry from all of these agents
Incoming livestream: On all your endpoints to be observable, like, how you got that to be seen.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, so fortunately at Elastic, we do have an EDR, and so there's not much that we have to do there. You know, it's out of the box, right? You download and install it, so,
Incoming livestream: you know, natively, regardless of whether we have these new Gen AI fields available, we have always been able to get data around our processes, networks, and files, and so that was a great place for us to start. Getting to that next level is the challenge.
Incoming livestream: Hey, Micah, great presentation. As a fellow detection engineer, I have a bit of a spicy question. If I already have observability into network activity, process activity, endpoint telemetry, etc, do I really care if it was an agent or a human?
Incoming livestream: if you already have observability on all the data, yeah, of course. It's,
Incoming livestream: It is the, it's the same… I'll actually in a different way. If someone uses Gen AI to put out AI slop, is that any different than if they manually put out some slop? Like, you really would want to know…
Incoming livestream: what is behind this? Like, is it your developer who's doing something, or making decisions because they made a bad decision, or is it because they
Incoming livestream: just clicked the button and yellowed it. In my opinion, I think one's a little bit more riskier than the other.
Incoming livestream: I think that's a standard attribution question. Do you care if it's a North Korean or if it's Kwaba?
Incoming livestream: Right? Okay, other questions?
Incoming livestream: Okay, alright. Well, thank you, Micah, that was really great.
Incoming livestream: Alright, next up, we have Muhammad.
Incoming livestream: And, maybe the firewall question that we got earlier will fit into this one, so… Alright, over to you. All right. All right, good afternoon, everyone.
Incoming livestream: It's great to be here. So today I'll be talking about our learning and experience of hunting for GenAI threats at scale.
Incoming livestream: Using Yara-like signatures. Since the previous talk was about rules, I'm assuming you guys are familiar with it. Just to be sure, can you please raise your hand if you have heard about YARA, or used Yara?
Incoming livestream: All right, awesome. So that's good. So I am with the right audience here. So, as you probably know, Yara is the gold standard for identifying malware binaries and Java scripts like scripts, and it's being used everywhere, including Palo. We detect millions of, samples every day using YARA rules.
Incoming livestream: But with all the agents doing the work, and Gen AI being the mainstream now.
Incoming livestream: The new binary is natural language. It's no longer PEs or scripts.
Incoming livestream: Even though JARI is great, they are not good at detecting GenAI threats.
Incoming livestream: That's where Superior comes in. We built our library.
Incoming livestream: getting inspiration from Yara, just like Yara, so that you have very minimal learning curve, but it can work to detect GenAI threats.
Incoming livestream: So I'm going to walk you through what I mean by genetic threads and show you some examples. The best way to learn something is through examples, so I'll be, tossing in a few examples and showing you how it works.
Incoming livestream: And first, the number one thread in Gen AI is prompt injection, and you guys are probably familiar with that, and…
Incoming livestream: it can happen from multiple ways. Since I work in the web space, I'm gonna focus on the examples which I see day-to-day from the overall internet web space. And these prompts can be delivered through query parameters, or they could be,
Incoming livestream: Delivered through hashes?
Incoming livestream: Or it could be even through dynamically detonated into the browser itself, and none of the Fiverr solution will not see it, because it gets to the browser, and the browser itself calls the LLM and gets the obfuscated JavaScript, and does the bad stuff.
Incoming livestream: So, now enter into the new startup called SafeIntel.ai. It's the rising new startup, which takes any LLM and instantly convert into a safe LLM to use. And they provide API access, and their lead engineer, Ada.
Incoming livestream: Decided that we need to have some solution to make sure that
Incoming livestream: users do not misuse their query parameter-based API. So, she came up with this solution, she iterated multiple times, and she developed this Yara role. And…
Incoming livestream: As you can see, she figured out, it quickly get out of her hand, the number of O parameters started increasing, and it became complicated. It became difficult to maintain, to catch all the variants of prompt injections.
Incoming livestream: And worse yet, it is prone to FP and FPIN as well.
Incoming livestream: So, she was scratching her head, and she was…
Incoming livestream: then came across this awesome library called Superiora, and she was able to write the same rule with just
Incoming livestream: These two lines of code, where you specify what you want to catch in natural language, and the library does the magic
Incoming livestream: by doing the semantic match internally. And you don't need to iterate all the varieties or all the types of injections here, because it can understand the semantics and identify a very similar one. For example, don't execute previous rules. It will understand, even though it is not specifically mentioned.
Incoming livestream: Now, the test of time. So, now she converted into this one, she put it into Shadow Prod. Now, she wants to make sure that it works, meaning it can detect more threats than it was able to detect before. So, as you can see.
Incoming livestream: The tradition, clearly, compared to the traditional YARA rule, the semantic Yara rule, the super-yara rule, was able to detect more.
Incoming livestream: So, she was happy about that.
Incoming livestream: And…
Incoming livestream: at the little expense of a little bit of a higher expense, because it needs to do semantic matching. But it's still cheaper compared to doing some kind of LLM.
Incoming livestream: Because we have the habit of throwing the LLM to every problem. The problem is, when you want to detect threats at scale, when you have to iterate through millions of pages, they don't work. That's why you need to have solutions which works intermediate.
Incoming livestream: And… So one thing she realized, though.
Incoming livestream: there is still room to improve. As you can see, they were not able to identify row over, right? So, that's a valid, limitation, and she's right about it. That's where we introduce various other constructs, which will make sure that you can even
Incoming livestream: detect much harder injections. So, specifically, we support Four types of…
Incoming livestream: construct. The string is very similar to the yara rules that we already have seen.
Incoming livestream: And similarity is the one that I showed you in the previous slide, where you can do semantic similarity with any text.
Incoming livestream: And then, you can throw in any classifier which has either binary or multi-class classification.
Incoming livestream: And ask it to use it as a… the rule,
Incoming livestream: condition. And also, you can write your own LLM prompt.
Incoming livestream: And ask it to use it as a detection engine.
Incoming livestream: And, as you can see.
Incoming livestream: the detection efficacy increases as you use these different models down the line, but at the same time, it also increases your time and cost. So, just like in security we use defense in depth.
Incoming livestream: Our recommendation here is to use a mix of these techniques, so that you balance the efficacy and the detection cost and time, so that you cover as many as threats possible, but without breaking your wallet.
Incoming livestream: Alright, now I'm gonna demonstrate, another example where we can use a layered approach, the defense in depth approach, where you have multiple conditions hit to detect this, popular click fix attack.
Incoming livestream: ClickFix is not specifically Genia threat, but we have seen certain social engineering aspect to it, and also we recently saw a few examples where they are using ClickFix to, deliver agent skills to your computer manager's agent skills.
Incoming livestream: So, in this rule, the superior rule, I have three
Incoming livestream: at a high level, 3 conditions here. So, what it, at a high level, does is, it will check whether a string is matching. If it matches, it will say, this is a click-through setback, and if not, it will go to the similarity check, which is slightly higher cost of…
Incoming livestream: Doing it, and if it doesn't match, it'll fall back to the classifier. So in this case, we have fine-tuned a diberta model and put it into the system so that it can detect these prompt injections.
Incoming livestream: So, 3 layers together.
Incoming livestream: And this experiment result shows how it works. As you can see, 50% of the threats are detected by the simple error rule.
Incoming livestream: And the remaining roughly 45-48% of the threats are detected by the more expensive, similarity and the classifier threads. So, as you can see.
Incoming livestream: I mean, one could… if you used only the JARA rule, you will be missing 50% of it. But if you used only, for example, the classifier, you will be detecting most of them, but it will be more expensive. You can reduce the cost almost by 50% by doing a defense-in-depth layer.
Incoming livestream: Alright, another important pattern we all, most of the time use is what is called this pre-filtering pattern.
Incoming livestream: Instead of always going for the expensive approach, where you can throw in an LLM, as I mentioned before, you can pair the LLM with a more cheap operation, like string matching, or even a semantic similarity. So, the idea here is, whenever you build rules.
Incoming livestream: You come up with a string rule and match together with a classifier, or similarity with, LLM? Something similar to that. Bend the cheaper rule with the more expensive one, so that you are…
Incoming livestream: Trying to balance the detection after pre-filtering it.
Incoming livestream: And this way.
Incoming livestream: Like, in our experiments, we saw, actually, it was almost 99% reduction in cost when you do that, instead of just blindly throwing the most expensive construct.
Incoming livestream: So, I'm gonna demonstrate that using this, real threat which we see increasingly with, GenAI. Impersonating brand has been, never been easier. So, now with agents communicating with each other, I'm sure we will see more,
Incoming livestream: Attacks where agents will be impersonating the other agents.
Incoming livestream: Alright, so in this case, we only have two rules. The first one is the classifier rule. It's the… it acts as the pre-filter.
Incoming livestream: And the second rule is the LLM rule. The classifier is built from one of the openly available Hugging Face phishing detector, so we just download that and plug it in, it works, boom, there. And once…
Incoming livestream: it… I mean, the problem with the classifier, as I will be showing in the next slide, is it's false positive prone.
Incoming livestream: So, you can't…
Incoming livestream: use the classifier alone to detect it, because it will be a lot of false positives, and the customers will not be happy. And you can still use it as a pre-filter, because it's okay to get few false positives, as long as it has high recall.
Incoming livestream: And once you get those ones, you can pass it to the second condition, LLM. LLM is more expensive and time-consuming. As you can see, each LLM operation on average took about 4.5 seconds, compared to the classifier, which is few milliseconds, like half a second.
Incoming livestream: And…
Incoming livestream: the numbers tell you the story here. Like, using this pre-filtering approach, we went from hours to minutes to do it.
Incoming livestream: And this is only 10,000. Think about, like… like, usually at parallel scale, we process millions of URLs each day. This will be a huge bottleneck if we just throw in the most expensive operation.
Incoming livestream: And similarly, the cost. I calculated the cost for the Gemini 2.5 Pro for 10K request, and it went from 750 to 13.5 by doing the pre-filtering.
Incoming livestream: So always do the pre-filtering before you do detections.
Incoming livestream: And I barely scratched the surface of what this library does. It actually has this flexible philosophy where
Incoming livestream: every component in the library is pluggable, and it follows the factory pattern, and I didn't talk about the… these special boxes like cleaners and chunkers.
Incoming livestream: whenever you are dealing with, like, messy data, like HTML, you don't want to feed the whole data, because it has a lot of fluff, which agent doesn't want to see, or any classifier, or a semantic model want to see.
Incoming livestream: So you need to clean it. There are… we have provided some standard cleaners, which will take the HTML, remove all the decorations, and get all the meat from it.
Incoming livestream: And then chunkers, because when you're working with, especially, gen AI kind of matching.
Incoming livestream: If you try to match the whole document with one phrase, it's gonna give you a very low score. So you probably need to chunk it, or chunk it by sentences, chunk it by paragraphs, or do overlapping chunking. There are so many other chunking techniques you can use.
Incoming livestream: The good thing about the library is you can plug in your own chunkers and cleaners and get it working the way you want, and you don't need to change a thing in the rule.
Incoming livestream: You just need to specify which chunk you used.
Incoming livestream: And then the rule engine will take care of it. And at the moment, out of the box, it supports these four kind of rules, as I mentioned before. And even for these.
Incoming livestream: LLMs, you can use any publicly available Gemini OpenAI kind of model, or even you can host it locally on Olama and call it as well. As long as you follow the same interface, the contract.
Incoming livestream: you can plug in any LLM. Similar for the classifier, and similar for the, similarity as well.
Incoming livestream: Alright, the best part of all is, it's all open source, it's available in GitHub, and you just need to go do pip install SCRA, you will get it in your laptop, or whatever device you are using with. And I have a website created here, all wipe-coded.
Incoming livestream: And this website has all the information there. If you go to sciara.org, you will see, not only the GitHublib, but also some cool examples and demos of, different kind of things, because I only demonstrated a very small, part of the whole library.
Incoming livestream: Alright, that's it from me. If you have any questions, I would be happy to answer.
Incoming livestream: Alright, any questions?
Incoming livestream: Okay, I'm gonna start with Moon over here, and then we'll walk my way over here.
Incoming livestream: Hey, dude, I love Yara. I've shared rules for two decades, this is fantastic. I had a question. You're onto something in terms of, like.
Incoming livestream: create a preprocessor, lower the cost, lower the cost up front, in terms of how many tokens I'm doing, the cost on the back, in terms of my analyst time. Are you doing any, like, reverse validation of new classifiers or new rules to go, this is a good rule, let's deploy it before you spend $1,300 to find that answer?
Incoming livestream: Reverse means… could you elaborate more? Excuse me, I can't hear you. Could you elaborate more on that one? What do you mean by reversing?
Incoming livestream: Like, so, if my analysts are deploying a new ER rules a countermeasure, before it goes through that part of my CICD platform is it's gonna go look at all the malware we've ever looked at, plus a whole collection of stuff that's like, never block this. I would imagine that's a lot harder to do with classifiers, unless you're saying, hey, use an off-the-shelf one.
Incoming livestream: But are you doing any custom ones? Yeah, I mean, there is, like, probably, I didn't explain it here… like, there is a part where you need to do some kind of fine-tuning, so probably you can see in the classifier, there is a threshold spot, but…
Incoming livestream: That threshold is decided based on the ground truth you have in the CICD. Okay. Like, you need to use some amount of known benign and known malicious to fine-tune it, and yeah, I would put it in shadow before, just like any ARA rule, that's what we do, we put usually in
Incoming livestream: For about one week in Shadow Prod, because you never know what you get from the real feed. And if it's all good, we enable it in prod. Absolutely, thank you.
Incoming livestream: Alright.
Incoming livestream: I'll do Carl first, and then over to you.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, I just had a quick question. Architecturally, can you explain why you decided to make a new format with Super Yara instead of extending the modularity that Yara already has? Like, Yara has PE analysis that's an imported module. Would that work here, or is this fundamentally changing something about Yara?
Incoming livestream: I mean, it follows the same philosophy, I mean, in principle, we should be able to extend it as well, but the friction is high, and…
Incoming livestream: In principle, we should be able to do it, but yeah, we didn't go in that avenue.
Incoming livestream: But it's, we follow the same footstep of Viara, making it all open source, no string attached, anyone should be able to use it.
Incoming livestream: So, that's pretty cool, I didn't know about this, Super Yara. I'm a data scientist, so I'm gonna ask a more data science-y question. So what do you use, for routing? Like, how do you decide when?
Incoming livestream: To use the ML versus the language model? Can you customize that? Is it, like, thresholds, or is it other stuff? Yeah, that's a very good question, actually. I forgot to mention the engine is optimized to execute the cheapest possible rule first.
Incoming livestream: If it is O condition, and if it is an condition, of course, you'll have to execute both rules. And for LLMs specifically, it's all customizable. You can have any type of LLM. You just need to wrap around your LLM call inside the interface provided. As long as you meet the contract, you should be able to use any LLM. And the way I usually decide is I start with the most powerful one.
Incoming livestream: I want to get it working, and then I lower the version and try to get it working for the lowest version I can use, so that it will be cheaper to deploy at scale.
Incoming livestream: Okay.
Incoming livestream: Oh, one more question.
Incoming livestream: There you go, Toby Following on that question, I'm really curious.
Incoming livestream: Does your, matcher stop once it's found an initial pattern match, or does it continue going and comparing all of the values that you've got in this, the pattern?
Incoming livestream: We can… right now, it goes through, like, especially if you do the chunking and use it, it'll go through all the chunks and get the value.
Incoming livestream: How is it selecting which is the correct match at that point, or is it just giving you the results of all of the matches? It will get the best match out of all. Like, if it matches multiple ones, it will identify the multiple ones, it identifies the chunks, and return it.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, and it's very similar to Yara. In Yara as well, it'll go through everything, like, when you even have a Yara rule, it'll go through the whole document and identify all the matches. Similarly, it'll be the same here.
Incoming livestream: Alright.
Incoming livestream: One more? Okay.
Incoming livestream: I'm sorry?
Incoming livestream: The conditioner's… conditioned after it? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, and the… Repeat the question, please.
Incoming livestream: Sorry. I was asking if he is running the EHO KORASIC. Basically, is he generating all the atoms, and then having those be submitted to the conditionals? Yeah. And also, these models and the LLMs are preloaded so that it doesn't get loaded every time you run the Lara. It would be very expensive to do it. So you initialize it, and it'll be in the global memory, and you… the Lara rule runs,
Incoming livestream: Referring to those ones in the memory.
Incoming livestream: Okay. Alright, so now we're on lunch break, and we'll reconvene, all the talks will reconvene at 1.30, prompt, promptly? Prompt? Anyway, so 1.30, come back, we're gonna get the track started. Lunch is upstairs, I believe, and, meet somebody new, okay? Thanks.